# Base Network Inventory weekly call (May 8, 2024)

## Participants

- Aihua Guo
- Chaode Yu
- Guoxiang Liu
- Italo Busi
- Jeff Bouquier
- Marisol Palmero
- Mohammad Boroon
- Nigel Davis
- Prasenjit Manna
- Roberto Manzotti
- Sergio Belotti

## Admin

Next call:

- May 15, 2024 at 10am NA EST / 4pm CET / 11pm CST

## Discussion

### Port Modelling (issue #45)

Slide from Chaode reviewed: [Discussion.of.Port.Modeling-20240508.pptx](https://github.com/ietf-ivy-wg/network-inventory-yang/files/15258754/Discussion.of.Port.Modeling-20240508.pptx)

A better term for the 'transceiver' component should be investigated since some SFPs contain more than one transceivers and the term 'transceiver' is already used in the optical impairments topology to represent the functional aspects.

In case of a non-pluggable port, reporting the 'transceiver' component is an implementation option: it could be useful if there is a need to report specific information (e.g., part-number or serial-number) of a non-pluggable component integrated into the board. Otherwise, the port component can be reported directly under the module component representing the board. 

Even the 'hole' has no serial-number, it is still need to model the 'hole' because there are multiple 'holes' in the device which need to be numbered and need to distinguish the different types of 'holes' within the network element, which may have different capabilities in terms of SFP modules which can be plugged-id.

It has been agreed that the four cases (pluggable transceiver port, non-pluggable transceiver port, empty hole and non-pluggable integrated port) apply to both optical and electrical ports.

Jeff: it is important to highlight that a port is the starting point of a service.
Nigel: In TAPI the access port has been defined (considered) as conceptual bridge between the logical model and physical model.

Italo: I am not sure we need to associate the port with the service or a new object to bridge between the functional view and the hardware/equipment view. The service starts from an LTP and the LTP can be associated with a port.

It has been agreed that there is no need to report two components for the Tx and Rx connector. A single 'port' component instance can be used to report the combination of the Tx and Rx connectors. In case of bidirectional connectors (e.g., a pin terminating a bidirectional fiber or an RJ-45 connector), a single 'port' component instance can be used to report the bidirectional connector.

Jeff: for me, on a pluggable, the port is the connector or the combination of the Tx and Rx connectors

It was highlighted that the SFP module and the connector/connectors pair can be modelled as a single 'port' component. In this case, there  is no need for a new component class (the 'transceiver' component class in the slides) and no need to differentiate in the model between the non-pluggable transceiver port and the non-pluggable integrated port.

Jeff disagreed not have a specific component for transceiver.

This issue needs further discussion.

The slides propose to model the 'hole', where an SFP module can be plugged-in, as a 'port' component instead of as a 'container' component

There was no agreement on whether the 'hole', where an SFP module can be plugged-in, should be modelled as a 'port' component or as an holder component of a different class (e.g., 'container' component class or as a new component class)

- [ ] Italo: send a mail to the IVY WG to gather more feedbacks also from other operators on how to model the 'hole' where an SPF module can be plugged-in
