# Network Inventory weekly call (January 31, 2024)

## Participants
- Aihua Guo
- Benoit Claise
- Bo Wu
- Italo Busi
- Jeff Bouquier
- Julien Meuric
- Marisol Palmero
- Nigel Davis
- Phil Bedard
- Roberto Manzotti
- Sergio Belotti
- Tony Li

## Admin

Next IVY WG interim meeting:

- February 7th at 10am NA EST / 4pm CET / 11pm CST

Next call:

- February 14th at 10am NA EST / 4pm CET / 11pm CST

## Discussion

### Efficiency Issue (issue #4)

- [x] Chaode: update the document accordingly

See PR#34

### Clarify RFC8348 container terminology (issue #13)

- [x] Chaode: update the document as agreed

See PR#34

### Part number (issue #15)

- [x] Chaode: update the YANG description for the part-number

See PR#34

- [ ] Sergio: check offline with Victor if he is ok with the proposed resolution

### Terminology and use cases clarification (issue #16)

A 'physical thing' can be seen as something that can be measured with a ruler and potentially weighed with scales

A NE is not a physical thing: inventory can consider also useful 'grouping/structure of physical things' like network elements (sometimes called device)

Note: in case of geographically distributed components, with the current model it is possible to group these distributed components as multiple NEs or as a single NE.

Note: it is important to also consider how the information about the physical things is accessed (this is often an aspect of NE)

The 'functional behavior' is outside the scope of the inventory work: the topology, interface and other YANG models are covering the functional behavior. Some navigation capability is needed and the definition of the navigation can be in the scope.

Need to clarify that the term inventory in our context is not an unconstrained 'list of anything' but be more precise about the scope of what we are listing. In our context for this initial work, inventory is a representation of the structure of physical things (i.e., not just a list and not all things).

There are informational things. Software is an 'informational thing' and it is in the scope of the work (although perhaps not in the first stage). Note that software is not {{Italo: I added not here as I think that that is what you meant to type and it is certainly what I was trying to say}} intended to be the running software which instead is representing the emergent 'functional behavior'.

- [ ] Nigel: prepare some diagrams to show the entities in the scope of our work

A traditional NE is an assembly of physical things, informational things, the functionality emergent when powered along with the method of access. A virtual NE does not directly have physical components. There are also hybrid NEs with some virtual components and some physical components.

It has been suggested also to look at the definitions in draft-palmero-ivy-ps-almo (in particular the asset definition) to see if there are also some concepts that can be used to defined what is in the scope for IVY 

- [ ] Marisol: suggest some improvements to the definitions based on TMF
