# Base Network Inventory weekly call (May 15,2024)

## Participants

- Aihua Guo
- Italo Busi
- Jean Rebiffe
- Mohammad Boroon
- Nigel Davis
- Prasenjit Manna
- Sergio Belotti

## Admin

Next call:

- May 22, 2024 at 10am NA EST / 4pm CET / 11pm CST

## Discussion

### Modeling of Port and Transceiver (issue #45)

> - [x] Italo: send a mail to the IVY WG to gather more feedbacks also from other operators on how to model the 'hole' where an SPF module can be plugged-in
> 

Draft text for the mail provided in:

https://demo.hedgedoc.org/6AxuTUrRRQ661IUDMc1AYw

It has been agreed to send the mail asking for feedbacks to the IVY WG without providing any pros&cons analysis. Supporters of one option can reply to the mail with their opinion about the advantages of the option they prefer.

The objective is to get a decision between option 1 and option 2 before the next call (May 22, 2024).

If option 2 is selected, we can later discuss the pros&cons of reusing the 'container' component class or defining a new component class, such as the 'cage' as proposed by BBF.

Nigel thinks that the hole is present with or without anything plugged-in and its capabilities have to be reported. Even if some holes are specialize for a single type of SFP, nothing precludes holes that can have different types of SFPs or with more than one 'port'.
An 'hole' can also host some other type of module (e.g., a memory module) without any external connector, not necessarily a transceiver.

Aihua reported the use case to retrieve all the capabilities of a board, including the empty 'holes', pluggable ports and non-pluggable ports.

According to Nigel the capability of the cards should be known by the controller before the card is plugged-in either through offline information or by some capability model.

Prasenjit reported that if there is a mismatch between the capabilities of the 'hole' and what it is plugged-in, an alarm should be raised.

Aihua reported that in the published BBF the 'transceiver-link' component is not used to report a optical connector but the 'transceiver' function within an SFP module (which is modelled in BBF as a 'transceiver' component). There are scenarios where a single SFP module can contain more than on 'transceiver' functions.

It has been highlighted that the current approach in IVY WG is to decouple the functional view from the hardware view. The functional view of the 'transceiver' is already modelled in the optical impairments topology and equally applies to the 'transceivers' hosted in an SFP module as well as those hosted on a 'transponder card'.

It may be worthwhile having some examples of the PON possible configurations to check how the base model can be used to model the PON port, especially those at the OLT.

### Contact information

It has been reported that in the published BBF network-map model, the contact information of the party responsible for the node is reported.

It has been asked whether this information is generic enough to be considered in the scope of the IVY WG or of the base model, or specific to access networks and therefore to be defined in BBF augmentations.

The participants agreed that the information is generic enough to be considered in the scope of the IVY WG. However, likewise the location information, it is better modelled as an augmentation to be defined outside the scope of the base inventory model.
